---
title: Stock Image
---

# LinuxCNC Rpi4 Stock Image

::list{type="success"}
  - [LinuxCNC Downloads Page](http://linuxcnc.org/downloads/)
::
::list{type="warning"}
  - [LinuxCNC Original Pi4 Image - 2.8.1](https://www.linuxcnc.org/iso/linuxcnc-2.8.1-pi4.zip)
::

For the Raspberry Pi4 there is an image available from the linuxcnc for download.  
This is useful to get a baseline of what latency figures we might get with a newer setup.

## Patched Bootloader

However, I have found for this version that the bootloader files are not compatible
if the Rpi4 has been updated with the latest EEPROM.  
To fix this it's just a case of copying the `start*`, `fixup*`, `bootcode.bin` files across from a working vfat partition.  
(bootcode.bin isn't actually used by the Pi4, but we might as well copy it at the same time)  
I've placed a patched image here:

::list{type="success"}
  - [LinuxCNC Patched Pi4 Image - 2.8.1](http://lfs.hecatron.com/linuxcnc/linuxcnc-2.8.1-pi4-fwpatched.7z)
::

::alert{type="danger"}

::list{type="warning"}
- Warning
::
Attempting to do an `apt upgrade` does seem to break the system.
It removes the boot files mentioned above and breaks wifi.
I think this is related to the kernel it's trying to update.
You can re-add the boot files again outside of the system, but wifi will remain broken for some reason.
::

Reading the forums in the future they may be moving to something like armbian.
So this is really only a temporary fix, just to get something working as a benchmark.
Since it's an old image and can't be updated without some messing about.

## Latency

The results of
```sh
latency-histogram --nobase --sbinsize 1000 --show
```

::card-grid
#title
Histogram

#root
:ellipsis

#default
  ::card
  #title
  Without glxgears.
  #description
  :nuxt-img{src="/4.diskimages/2.8-stock-nogears.png" width="300"}
  ::
  ::card
  #title
  With glxgears x10
  #description
  :nuxt-img{src="/4.diskimages/2.8-stock-10gears.png" width="300"}
::
